AXIS CODE OF BANK’S COMMITMENT TO CUSTOMERS

INTRODUCTION
This is a Code of Customer Rights, which sets minimum standards of banking practices
member banks have to follow while they deal with individual customers. It provides protection
to customers and explains how banks are expected to deal with customers in their day-to-day
operations.
The Code does not replace or supersede regulatory or supervisory instructions of the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI) and we will comply with such instructions / directions issued by RBI from time
to time. Provisions of the Code may have set higher standards than those prescribed in the
regulatory instructions and such higher standards will prevail as the Code represents best
practices voluntarily agreed to by us as our commitment to you.
We will endeavour to adopt higher standards of banking practices to extend better customer
service and achieve higher levels of customer satisfaction.
In the Code, 'you' denotes the customer and 'we' / 'us', the bank, the customer deals with.
1.1 Objectives of the Code
The Code has been developed to :
a. promote good and fair banking practices by setting minimum standards in our
dealings with you;
b. increase transparency so that you can have a better understanding of what
you can reasonably expect from us;
c. encourage market forces, through competition, to achieve higher operating
standards;
d. promote a fair and cordial relationship between you and your bank;
e. foster confidence in the banking system.
The standards of the Code are covered by the key commitments in Section 2.
1.2 Application of the Code
This Code applies to all the products and services listed below, whether they are
provided by our branches or subsidiaries agents acting on our behalf, whether across
the counter, over the phone, by post, through interactive electronic devices, on the
internet or by any other method. However, all products discussed here may or may
not be offered by us.
a. Current accounts, savings accounts, term deposits, recurring deposits, PPF
accounts and all other deposit accounts;
b. Payment services such as pension, payment orders, remittances by way of
Demand Drafts, wire transfers and all electronic transactions e.g. RTGS, NEFT;
c. Banking services related to Government transactions;
d. Demat accounts, equity, Government bonds;
5
e. Indian currency notes / coins exchange facility;
f. Collection of cheques, safe custody services, safe deposit locker facility;
g. Loans, overdrafts and guarantees;
h. Foreign exchange services including money changing;
i. Third party insurance and investment products marketed through our branches
and / or our authorized representatives or agents;
j. Card products including credit cards, debits cards, ATM cards, smart cards and
services (including credit cards offered by our subsidiaries / companies
promoted by us).
The meanings of key words appearing in bold black have been given in the Glossary.
2 KEY COMMITMENTS
2.1 Our key commitments to you
2.1.1 To act fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with you by
a. Providing minimum banking facilities of receipt and payment of cash /
cheques, etc. at the bank's counter.
b. Meeting the commitments and standards set in this Code, for the
products and services we offer, and in the procedures and practices
we follow.
c. Making sure our products and services meet relevant laws and
regulations in letter and spirit and are appropriate to your needs.
d. Ensuring that our dealings with you rest on ethical principles of integrity
and transparency.
e. Operating secure and reliable banking and payment systems.
2.1.2 To help you to understand how our financial products and services work by
a. Giving you information about them in any one or more of the following
languages - Hindi, English or the appropriate local language.
b. Ensuring that our advertising and promotional literature is clear and not
misleading.
c. Ensuring that you are given clear information about our products and
services, the terms and conditions and the interest rates / service
charges, which apply to them.
d. Giving you information on the facilities provided to you and how you
can avail of these and whom and how you may contact for
addressing your queries.
2.1.3 To help you use your account or service by
a. Providing you regular appropriate updates.
6
2.1.5 To treat all your personal information as private and confidential
We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential subject
to matters mentioned in Paragraph No. 5 below.
b. Keeping you informed about changes in the interest rates, charges or
terms and conditions.
c. Displaying in our branches, for your information
i. Services we provide.
ii. Minimum balance requirement, if any, for Savings Bank Accounts
and Current Accounts and the charges for non-maintenance
thereof.
iii. Name of the official at the branch whom you may approach if
you have a grievance.
iv. Name and address of the Regional / Zonal Manager / Principal
Nodal Officer (PNO) whom you can approach if your grievance
is not redressed at the branch.
v. Name and contact details of the Banking Ombudsman under
whose jurisdiction the branch falls.
vi. Information available in booklet form.
d. Displaying on our website our policies on
i. Deposits
ii. Cheque collection
iii. Grievance Redressal
iv. Compensation
v. Collection of Dues and Security Repossession.
2.1.4 To deal quickly and sympathetically with things that go wrong by
a. Correcting mistakes promptly and cancelling any bank charges that
we apply by mistake and compensate you for any financial loss you
may have incurred due to our mistake, in terms of our compensation
policy.
b. Handling your complaints promptly.
c. Telling you how to take your complaint forward if you are still not
satisfied.
d. Providing suitable alternative avenues to alleviate problems arising out
of technological failures.
7
2.1.6 To publicize the Code
We will
a. provide you with a copy of the Code when you open an account
with us and otherwise on request.
b. make available this Code at every branch and on our website.
c. ensure that our staff are trained to provide relevant information
about the Code and to effectively put the Code into practice.
d. take other steps to increase awareness of the customers about the
Code and its provisions.
2.1.7 To adopt and practice a non - discrimination policy
We will not discriminate you on the basis of age, race, gender, marital status,
religion, disability or financial status.
3 INFORMATION – TRANSPARENCY
You can get information on interest rates, fees and charges through any one or more of the
following :
a. Notice Board in our branches.
b. Contacting our branches or help-lines.
c. Our website.
d. Asking our designated staff / help desk.
e. Referring to the Tariff Schedule at our branches / on our website.
3.1 General information
We will
a. give you information on the types of products and services we offer
and those that may suit your needs.
b. prominently display in bilingual / trilingual at all our branches the
documents required for opening Basic Savings Bank Deposit Accounts.
We will also display the relaxed requirements for opening "Small
Accounts".
c. give you clear information explaining the key features of the services
and products you tell us you are interested in, including applicable
interest rates, fees and charges.
d. tell you the different channels through which our products and services
may be availed e.g. branches, ATMs, phone, Net banking and tell you
how to find out more about them.
e. tell you what information we need from you to prove your identity and
address, for us to comply with legal, regulatory and internal policy
8
requirements.
f. give you information on your rights and responsibilities especially
regarding availing of nomination facility offered on all deposit
accounts, articles in safe custody and safe deposit lockers.
3.2 'Do Not Call' service
We will not transmit to you any unsolicited commercial information regarding our products
and services, through telephone calls / SMS / e-mails, if you have registered with the 'Do Not
Call Registry' of our bank. or with the 'National Do Not Call Registry' directly or through your
Service Provider. However, this will not apply to receipt of information regarding your
account statements and other important advices and information including alerts relating
to transactions on your account as also the products and services you are currently
availing.
3.3 Interest rates
We will give you information on
a. the interest rates which apply to your deposit and loan accounts.
b. in case of loans at fixed rate of interest, details of interest reset clause, if
any, in the loan agreement and the effective date thereof.
c. in case of loans at floating rate of interest, the reference rate to which
your floating rate will be linked and the premium or discount applied to
the reference rate for determining the actual rate of interest on your
loan.
d. whether you have the option for converting your loan from fixed rate to
floating rate and vice versa and, if so, the charges therefor.
e. periodicity at which we pay interest on your deposits or charge interest
on your loan accounts.
f. how we apply interest to your deposit and loan accounts and how we
calculate interest thereon.
3.3.1 Changes in interest rates
We will inform you of changes in interest rates on our loan products and
changes in the reference rate to which the floating rate of interest is
linked within a fortnight of the decision by any of the following means :
i. Letter
ii. e-mail
iii. SMS
We will also display this information on the Notice Boards in our
branches as also on our website.
9
3.4 Tariff schedule
3.4.1 Fees & charges
a. We will ensure that our fees and service charges for various
services are approved by the bank's Board or any competent
authority duly authorized by the Board to take decisions in this
regard and that they would be reasonable and non-
discriminatory for similar class of customers.
b. We will place our Tariff Schedule on our website and make a
copy available at every branch for your perusal. We will display
in our branches a notice about the availability of the Tariff
Schedule at the branch.
c. We will give you details in our Tariff Schedule of any charges
applicable to the products and services chosen by you.
d. We will also provide you information about the penalties leviable
in case of non-observance / violation of any of the terms and
conditions governing the product / services chosen by you.
3.4.2 Changes in fees & charges
If we increase any fee or charge or introduce a new fee or charge, it will
be notified through statements of accounts / e-mail / SMS alerts / notice
board at branches, one month prior to the revised charges becoming
effective. This information will also be made available on our website.
3.5 Terms and conditions
a. We will advise you the relevant terms and conditions for the products /
services you have asked us to provide.
b. All terms and conditions will be fair and will set out the respective rights,
liabilities and obligations clearly and as far as possible in plain and simple
language.
3.5.1 Changes to terms and conditions
a. We will tell you of changes in terms and conditions through any
one or more of the following channels one month prior to the
revised terms and conditions becoming effective :
i. Letter
ii. Statements of account
iii. SMSs
iv. e-mail
b. Normally, changes will be made with prospective effect giving
notice of one month.
c. If we have made any change without notice, we will notify the
change within 30 days. If such change is to your disadvantage,
10
you may within 60 days of the notice, close your account or
switch to any other eligible account without having to pay
revised charge or interest.
d. We will immediately update, on our website, any changes in the
terms and conditions. We will give you, on request, a copy of the
new terms and conditions.
4 ADVERTISING, MARKETING AND SALES
a. We will make sure that all our advertising and promotional material is clear, and
not misleading.
b. In any advertisement and promotional literature that draws attention to a
banking service or product and includes a reference to an interest rate, we will
also indicate whether other fees and charges will apply and full details of the
relevant terms and conditions will be made available on request.
c. If we avail of the services of third parties for providing support services, we will
require that they handle your personal information (if available to such third
parties) with the same degree of confidentiality and security as we would.
d. We may, from time to time, communicate to you various features of our products
availed by you by e-mail, SMS or over the telephone. Information about our other
products or promotional offers in respect of our products / services will be
conveyed to you only if you have not registered for the 'Do Not Call' facility.
e. We have prescribed a code of conduct for our Direct Selling Agencies (DSAs)
whose services we may avail to market our products / services which, amongst
other matters, requires them to identify themselves as only selling agents of our
bank when they approach you for selling our products personally or through
phone. We will ensure that any third party or agent acting on our behalf or selling
our product complies with the code of conduct.
f. In the event of receipt of any complaint from you that our representative /
courier or DSA has engaged in any improper conduct or acted in violation of this
Code, we shall take appropriate steps to investigate and to handle the
complaint and to make good the loss as per our compensation policy.
g. We will ensure that any third party or agent acting on our behalf or selling our
product discloses the fee or commission they are paid upon completion of the
sale.
5 PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY
a. We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential (even when you
are no longer a customer), and shall be guided by the following principles and policies.
b. We will not reveal information or data relating to your accounts, whether provided by
you or otherwise, to anyone, including other companies / entities in our group, other
than in the following exceptional cases :
i. If we have to give the information by law or if required by the banking
11
regulator.
ii. If there is a duty towards the public to reveal the information.
iii. If our interests require us to give the information (for example, to prevent fraud)
but we will not use this as a reason for giving information about you or your
accounts (including your name and address) to anyone else, including other
companies in our group, for marketing purposes.
iv. If you authorize us to reveal the information.
v. If we are asked to give a banker's reference about you, we will need your
written permission before we give it.
c. We will not use your personal information for marketing purposes by anyone including
ourselves unless you specifically authorize us to do so.
5.1 Credit Information Companies
When you apply for a credit facility :
a. We will explain to you the role of Credit Information Companies (CICs) as also
the checks we may make with them and the effect that the information they
provide can have on your ability to get credit.
b. We will on request, and on payment of prescribed fee, furnish you a copy of
the credit information obtained by us from the CIC.
c. We will provide information about credit availed from us to the CIC at periodic
intervals.
d. Information reported to CIC will also include personal debts you owe us when
i. You have fallen behind with your payments
ii. The amount owed is in dispute
e. If your loan account has been in default, but thereafter regularised, we will
update this information with the CIC in the next report.
f. We will, on request, inform you of the details of the CIC(s) to which we submit
information regarding the credit / loan facility you have availed from us.
6 COLLECTION OF DUES
a. Whenever we give loans, we will explain to you the repayment schedule, viz. amount,
tenure and periodicity of repayment. However, if you do not adhere to repayment
schedule, a defined process in accordance with the laws of the land will be followed for
recovery of dues.
b. We will have a Board approved policy for Collection of Dues and Security Repossession
as also appointment of Recovery Agents.
c. All relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and conditions of approval, licensing or
registration will be taken into account when appointing Recovery Agents.
12
d. We will ensure that our Recovery Agents are properly trained to handle their
responsibilities with care and sensitivity. We will also ensure that they do not exceed their
brief.
e. Our collection policy is built on courtesy, fair treatment and persuasion. We believe in
fostering customer confidence and long-term relationship.
f. We will provide you with all the information regarding your dues and will endeavour to
give sufficient notice for payment of dues.
g. We will have a system of checks before passing on a default case to recovery agencies
so that you are not harassed on account of lapses on our part.
h. We will write to you when we initiate recovery proceedings against you and will inform
you of the name of the recovery agency / agent, to whom your case has been
assigned as also their address and telephone numbers.
i. We will provide details of the recovery agency firms / companies engaged by us on our
website.
j. We will also make available, on request, details of the recovery agency firms /
companies relevant to you at our branches.
k. Our staff or any person authorized to represent us in collection of dues or / and security
repossession will identify himself / herself and produce the authority letter issued by us
and upon request show you his / her identity card issued by the bank or under authority
of the bank.
l. All the members of our staff or any person authorized to represent us in collection or /
and security repossession would follow the guidelines set out below :
i. You would be contacted ordinarily at the place of your choice and in the
absence of any specified place at the place of your residence and if
unavailable at your residence, at the place of business / occupation.
ii. Identity and authority to represent would be made known to you.
iii. Your privacy would be respected.
iv. Interaction with you would be in a civil manner.
v. Normally our representatives will contact you between 0700 hrs and 1900 hrs,
unless the special circumstances of your business or occupation require
otherwise.
vi. Your requests to avoid calls at a particular time or at a particular place would
be honoured as far as possible.
vii. Time and number of calls and contents of conversation would be
documented.
viii. All assistance would be given to resolve disputes or differences regarding
dues in a mutually acceptable and in an orderly manner.
ix. During visits to your place for dues collection, decency and decorum would
be maintained. Our officials / agents will not resort to intimidation or
harassment of any kind, either verbal or physical against any person, including
13
acts intended to humiliate publicly or intrude the privacy of your family
members, referees and friends, making threatening and anonymous calls or
making false and misleading representations.
However, it is your responsibility to keep updating your contact details. In case
the bank is unable to contact you on the details provided, the bank will
access information available from public sources and approach your friends /
relatives to trace you.
x. Inappropriate occasions such as bereavement in the family or other
important family functions like marriages would be avoided for making calls /
visits to collect dues.
xi. We will investigate any complaint from you about unfair practices of our
recovery agents.
6.1 Collection of Dues and Security Repossession Policy
We will follow collection of dues and security repossession policy in consonance with the
law. The policy will be displayed on our website and a copy of the same will be made
available at our branches for perusal.
7 COMPLAINTS, GRIEVANCES AND FEEDBACK
7.1 Internal procedures
a. If you want to make a complaint, we will tell you :
i. How to do so.
ii. Where a complaint can be made.
iii. To whom a complaint can be made.
iv. When to expect a reply.
v. Whom to approach for redressal.
vi. What to do if you are not satisfied about the outcome.
b. Our staff will help you with any questions you have.
c. We will tell you where to find details of our procedure for handling complaints fairly
and quickly.
d. We will display the name of the official at the branch whom you may approach if
you have a grievance. If your complaint is unresolved at the branch level, you
may approach our Regional / Zonal Manager / Principal Nodal Officer (PNO) at
the address displayed at the branch.
e. If your complaint has been received in writing, we will endeavour to send you an
acknowledgement / a response within a week. If your complaint is relayed over
phone at our designated telephone helpdesk or customer service number, we
shall provide you a complaint reference number and keep you informed of the
progress within a reasonable period of time.
f. After examining the matter, we will send you our final response or explain why we
need more time to respond and shall endeavour to do so within 30 days of receipt
of your complaint and will tell you how to take your complaint further if you are still
14
not satisfied.
g. Within 30 days of lodging a complaint with us, if you do not get a satisfactory
response from us and you wish to pursue other avenues for redressal of grievances,
you may approach Banking Ombudsman appointed by Reserve Bank of India
under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme. Our staff would explain the procedure in
this regard.
7.2 Banking Ombudsman Scheme
We will display the Banking Ombudsman Scheme on our website. A copy will be made
available on request at a nominal charge. We will display at our branches the name
and contact details of the Banking Ombudsman under whose jurisdiction the branch
falls.
7.3 Customers' meetings
We shall endeavour to organize meetings of customers at periodic intervals as a regular
channel for exchange of ideas and suggestions.
7.4 Branch Level Customer Service Committee meetings
We will display in our branches the date of our monthly Branch Level Customer Service
Committee meeting, which you may attend, if you so desire.
8. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
8.1 Deposit accounts
a. You may open different types of accounts with us such as, savings accounts, term
deposits, current accounts etc. with us. You may open such accounts in the
following styles :
i. Single
ii. Joint
iii. Joint (Either or Survivor)
iv. Joint (Former or Survivor)
v. Joint (Latter or Survivor);
or
vi. In any other style.
b. We will make available 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' (BSBD Account) to all
customers, without the requirement of any minimum balance. We will offer / provide
minimum common facilities, without any charges. The relevant details will be made
known to you in a transparent manner at the time of opening of the account.
c. The above accounts may be opened by you with nomination facility, wherever
permissible. We will include, in the account opening form, the option for nomination
as also the option for indicating the name of the nominee in passbooks / account
statements / FDRs. We will explain the implications of the foregoing accounts as also
15
the nomination facilities at the time of opening of the account.
d. We will acknowledge the receipt of your nomination details and record the fact of
nomination on the passbook / account statement / FDRs. At your request, we will
also indicate the name of the nominee thereon.
e. We will also inform you about liquid deposit facility, sweep account and similar types
of products offered by us and their implications and procedures involved, at the
time of opening of account.
8.1.1 Account opening and operation of deposit accounts
Before opening any deposit account, we will :
a. carry out due diligence as required under "Know Your Customer" (KYC)
guidelines.
b. ask you to submit or provide necessary documents or proofs to do so.
c. obtain only such information to meet with our KYC, Prevention of Money
Laundering or any other statutory requirements. In case any additional
information is asked for, it will be sought separately and we will explain the
reason for obtaining such additional information. Providing such
information will be voluntary, unless required by law. The information will
be kept confidential, unless required by law enforcing agency / banking
regulator.
d. provide the account opening forms which will contain details of essential
information required to be furnished and documents to be produced for
verification and / or for record for meeting the KYC requirements.
e. require you to submit documents in respect of KYC at periodic intervals to
enable us to update our records as required.
f. explain the procedural formalities and provide necessary clarifications
sought by you while opening a deposit account.
g. give you the Most Important Terms and Conditions (MITC) governing the
deposit facility you have sought to avail.
h. at the time of opening of the account, make available to you the details
of the insurance cover in force under the insurance scheme, subject to
certain limits and conditions offered by the Deposit Insurance and Credit
Guarantee Corporation of India (DICGC).
8.1.2 Changing your account
a. If you are not happy about your choice of current / savings account, you
may within 14 days of making your first payment into the account,
approach us to switch to any of our other accounts. Alternatively, you
may ask for refund of the amount which will be given back to you with
any interest it may have earned. We will ignore any notice period and
any extra charges.
b. If you decide to close your current / savings account we will do so within
three working days of receiving your instructions, subject to your
completing all formalities and submitting all required documents.
16
c. If you want to transfer your account to another branch of our bank we will
do so. On receiving your request, we will transfer the account to the
transferee branch within 3 (three) working days without insisting on fresh
proof of address and on the basis of a self declaration from you giving
your current address. You will have to submit documentary proof of this
address within a period of six months. We will intimate you as soon as the
account is operationalised. The new branch will be provided with
information on your existing standing instructions / direct debits, if any.]
8.1.3 Savings / Current accounts
When you open a Deposit Account, we will :
a. inform you about number of transactions, cash withdrawals, etc. that can
be done free of charge in a given period.
b. inform you about the kind of charges, if any, in case of exceeding such
limits. Details of the charges will be included in the Tariff Schedule.
c. inform you of the rate at which interest is paid on your savings deposits,
how it is calculated and the periodicity of its payment.
8.1.3.1 Minimum balance
a. The minimum balance to be maintained in the Savings Bank
account will be displayed in our branches.
b. For deposit products like Savings Bank Account and Current Account
or any other type of Deposit Account, we will inform you :
i. about the minimum balance to be maintained as part of terms
and conditions governing operation of such accounts.
ii. about charges which will be levied in case of failure to maintain
the minimum balance in the account by you. Details of the
charges will be included in the Tariff Schedule.
iii. 30 days in advance, of any change in minimum balance to be
maintained. During this notice period, we will not charge you for
non-maintenance of such higher minimum balance prescribed.
8.1.3.2 Charges
Specific charges for issue of cheque books, additional / duplicate
statement of accounts, duplicate passbook, copies of paid cheques, folio
charges, debit card, ATM card, verification of signature, return of cheque,
change in mandate or style of account, closure of Savings Bank / Current
accounts etc., will be included in our Tariff Schedule. Concessions or relief
given will not be withdrawn during the original validity period of the
concession / relief.
17
8.1.3.3 Passbook / statements
a. To help you manage your account and check entries in it, we will
provide you with a monthly statement / e-mail statement (subject
to your acceptance) of account unless you have opted for a
passbook.
b. You can ask us to provide you with account statements more often
than is normally available on your type of account, at a charge.
This charge will be indicated in the Tariff Schedule.
c. We will indicate our MICR Code and IFS Code in passbooks and
statements of accounts.
d. We will make available the Customer Care number of the bank /
Contact number of the branch in passbooks and statements of
accounts.
e. We will ensure that entries in your passbook / statements are brief,
informative and intelligible.
8.1.3.4 Upgradation of deposit accounts
In case your account meets the terms for upgradation, we will
upgrade your account only after obtaining your consent in writing
or through any other mode or where your consent is obtained
through authenticated electronic means after necessary validation.
8.1.4 Accounts of minors
a. We will tell you, on request, how a Deposit Account can be opened
in the name of a minor and how it can be operated.
b. We will intimate the date on which the minor becomes major.
8.1.5 Inoperative / Dormant accounts
We will :
a. inform you when you open your account, the circumstances under
which your account will be classified as inoperative / dormant. You
will also be informed at least three months before your account is
classified as inoperative / dormant and the consequences thereof.
b. also endeavour to send an SMS / e-mail advising that your account
is being classified as inoperative / dormant.
c. notify the joint holder/s also before an account is classified as
inoperative / dormant.
d. inform you of the procedure to be followed if you want to activate
the account.
e. not levy any charge merely because an account is inoperative /
dormant.
18
f. not charge you for activation of the inoperative account.
8.1.6 Closing your account
Under normal circumstances, we will not close your account without giving
you at least 30 days' notice indicating the reasons for such closure. In such
cases, you will be required to make alternate arrangements for cheques
already issued by you and desist from issuing any fresh cheques on such
account.
8.2 Clearing cycle / collection services
a. We may provide a drop box facility to enable you to deposit cheques to be
sent for collection. Necessary precaution will be taken to ensure that
cheques deposited in the drop box are properly and promptly accounted
for. However, you may, if you so desire, hand over cheques at the counter
against acknowledgement instead of depositing in the drop box.
b. We will inform you about the clearing cycle for local instruments and the
outstation instruments including details such as cut-off time for lodging of
instruments for same day clearing, when you can withdraw money after
lodging instruments and when you will be entitled to earn interest on
delayed collection as per our Cheque Collection Policy.
c. We will pay you compensation, as per our Cheque Collection /
Compensation Policy for any delay in collection of instruments, without
waiting for a demand from you.
d. We will inform you, immediately, by SMS / e-mail when a cheque deposited
by you for collection is returned unpaid.
e. We will return a cheque unpaid / dishonoured along with a duly signed
return memo indicating the date of return as also the reason for return /
refusal of payment within 24 hours.
f. If immediate credit for outstation cheques is offered, we will provide relevant
information including the applicable terms and conditions, such as the limit
up to which instruments tendered by you can be credited, operating
accounts satisfactorily, etc.
g. We will proceed as per our Cheque Collection Policy and provide all
assistance for you to obtain a duplicate cheque / instrument in case a
cheque / instrument tendered by you is lost in transit and compensate you
as per our Cheque Collection / Compensation Policy.
h. We will give the above information when you open your account and
whenever you ask for it. If there is any change in our Cheque Collection
policy, the revised policy will be displayed on our website and will be made
available at all our branches.
8.3 Cash transactions
a. We will accept cash and dispense cash at any of our branches under core
banking subject to any restrictions on type of transaction or charges, if any,
applicable to such transactions.
b. We will exchange soiled / mutilated notes and / or small coins and issue
19
good quality, clean bank notes / coins at all our branches. We will extend
this facility, within prescribed limits to walk-in customers too.
c. For transactions above a specified amount we may require you to furnish
your PAN.
8.4 Direct debits and standing instructions
We will :
a. at the time of opening the account tell you how direct debits / standing
instructions work and how you may record / cancel them and the charges
connected with them. Charges will be levied as per the Tariff Schedule.
b. act upon mandates given by you for direct debits [say Electronic Clearing
Service (ECS)] and other standing instructions. In case of any delay or failure
in executing the mandate resulting in financial loss or additional cost, we will
compensate you as per the compensation policy of the bank. If the
mandate cannot be executed due to insufficient balance in your account,
we will levy charges as per the Tariff Schedule.
c. Credit your account along with interest as soon as it is determined that any
amount has been unauthorized / erroneously debited from your account
and compensate you as per the Compensation Policy of the bank.
8.5 Stop payment facility
We will :
a. accept stop payment instructions from you in respect of cheques issued by
you. Immediately on receipt of your instructions, we will give an
acknowledgement and take action provided these cheques have not
already been cleared by us.
b. levy charges, if any, as indicated in the Tariff Schedule.
c. reimburse and compensate you as per the Compensation Policy of the bank
in case a cheque is paid subsequent to the receipt of stop payment
instructions by us.
8.6 Cheques / debit instructions issued by you
We will :
a. keep original cheques / debit instructions paid from your account or copies
or images of the cheques received from the presenting bank under CTS, for
such periods as required by law.
b. give you the cheque / image of cheque / debit instruction or a copy thereof
as evidence as long as records are available with us. If there is a dispute
about a cheque paid / debit instructions from your account and in case the
request for such cheque, etc. is made within a period of one year from the
date of cheque / debit instruction, no charge will be levied. In respect of
requests received beyond this period, charges will be levied as per the Tariff
Schedule.
20
c. inform you how we will deal with unpaid cheques and out-of-date [stale]
cheques. The details of charges to be levied will be included in the Tariff
Schedule.
8.7 Term deposits
a. When you place a term deposit with us, we will obtain instructions from you in
the account opening form for the disposal of your deposit at maturity.
b. Where there are no instructions for disposal of the deposit at maturity, we will
inform you well in advance through letter / mail / SMS about its impending
date of maturity.
c. In case we still do not receive any instruction from you, we will renew the
deposit, excluding deposits like tax savings deposits etc, for the same period
of time as the matured deposit at the prevailing rate of interest.
d. We will inform you the procedure for withdrawal of term deposit before
maturity. This information will also be made available in the account opening
form / MITC / reverse of the FDR.
e. We will inform you of the interest rates applicable and charges for premature
withdrawal of term deposit.
f. We will permit premature withdrawals of term deposits in accordance with
the mandate 'Former or Survivor / Either or Survivor', provided you have given
us a specific joint mandate from all the depositors for the purpose. We will
provide for such a mandate in the account opening form.
g. We will inform you, at the time of acceptance of the deposit, the terms and
conditions and interest rate applicable in case you renew the deposits on a
date after the date of maturity. This information will also be made available
in the account opening form / MITC / reverse of the FDR.
h. We will advise you of provisions of Income Tax Act applicable to the interest
income accruing to you on your deposits, our obligations under the Act and
provisions available to you for seeking exemption from Tax Deduction at
Source.
i. We will obtain Form 15 G or 15 H as applicable from you at the time of
application if you are not liable to pay tax on your interest income. You may
submit to us such Form periodically as required, if you are not liable to pay
tax on your interest income. We will acknowledge receipt of such Forms.
j. We will issue the requisite certificate within the stipulated period if we deduct
tax from interest paid / accrued on your deposits.
k. We will indicate the tax deducted, if any, on interest on term deposits
credited to your Savings / Current account in the passbook / statement of
account.
8.7.1 Advances against term deposits
We will explain the facility of loan / overdraft available against term deposits.
21
8.8 Settlement of claims in respect of deceased account holders
a. We will follow a simplified procedure for settlement of accounts of
deceased account holders.
b. We will provide claim forms for settlement of claims of the
accounts of deceased persons, to those who approach us for the
forms. We will also place the claim forms on our website.
8.8.1 Accounts with survivor / nominee clause
a. In the case of a deposit account of a deceased
depositor, where the depositor had utilized the
nomination facility and made a valid nomination or
where the account was opened with the survivorship
clause ("either or survivor" or "anyone or survivor" or
"former or survivor" or "latter or survivor"), payment of the
balance in the deposit account to the survivor(s) /
nominee of a deceased deposit account holder will be
made, provided:
i. the identity of the survivor(s) / nominee and
the fact of the death of the account holder, is
established through appropriate
documentary evidence.
ii. there is no order from the competent court
restraining the bank from making the
payment from the account of the deceased.
In such cases, payment to the survivor(s) / nominee of
the deceased depositors will be made without insisting
on production of succession certificate, letter of
administration or probate, etc. or obtaining any bond of
indemnity or surety from the survivor(s) / nominee,
irrespective of the amount standing to the credit of the
deceased account holder.
b. The survivor(s) / nominee would be receiving the
payment from the bank as a trustee of the legal heirs of
the deceased depositor, i.e., such payment shall not
affect the right or claim which any person may have
against the survivor(s) / nominee to whom the payment
is made.
c. The payment made to the survivor(s) / nominee, subject
to the foregoing conditions, would constitute a full
discharge of the bank's liability.
d. In case of term deposits with "Either or Survivor" or
"Former or Survivor" mandate, premature withdrawal on
death of one of the depositors of the deposit by the
surviving joint depositor/s will be permitted only if there is
a mandate from all the depositors to this effect.
22
8.8.2 Accounts without the survivor / nominee clause
In case where the deceased depositor had not made any
nomination or for the accounts other than those styled as "either or
survivor" (such as single or jointly operated accounts), we will
adopt a simplified procedure for repayment to the legal heir(s) of
the depositor, keeping in view the imperative need to avoid
inconvenience and undue hardship to the common person.
Keeping in view our risk management policy, we will fix a minimum
threshold limit up to which claims in respect of the deceased
depositors could be settled without insisting on production of any
documentation other than a letter of indemnity.
8.8.3 Time limit for settlement of claims
We will settle the claims in respect of deceased depositors and
release payments to survivor(s) / nominee within a period not
exceeding 15 days from the date of receipt of the claim subject to
the production of proof of death of the depositor and suitable
identification of the claimant(s), to the bank's satisfaction.
8.8.4 Premature termination of term deposit accounts
In the case of term deposits, we will incorporate a clause in the
account opening form itself to the effect that in the event of the
death of the depositor, premature termination of term deposits
would be allowed. The conditions subject to which such premature
withdrawal would be permitted would also be specified in the
account opening form. Such premature withdrawal would not
attract any penal charge.
8.8.5 Treatment of flows in the name of the deceased depositor
In order to avoid hardship to the survivor(s) / nominee of a deposit
account, we will obtain appropriate agreement / authorization
from the survivor(s) / nominee with regard to the treatment of
pipeline flows in the name of the deceased account holder. In this
regard, we will consider adopting either of the following two
approaches :
i. We could be authorized by the survivor(s) / nominee of
a deceased account holder to open an account styled
as 'Estate of ________________, the Deceased' where all
the pipeline flows in the name of the deceased account
holder could be allowed to be credited, provided no
withdrawals are made.
OR
ii. We could be authorized by the survivor(s) / nominee to
return the pipeline flows to the remitter with the remark
"Account holder deceased" and to intimate the
survivor(s) / nominee accordingly. The survivor(s) /
nominee / legal heir(s) could then approach the remitter
to effect payment through a negotiable instrument or
23
through electronic transfer in the name of the
appropriate beneficiary.
8.9 Safe deposit lockers
We will give you the complete details of the rules and the procedures
applicable for allotment of the safe deposit lockers and also safe deposit of
valuables, in case we offer the service. We will allot lockers without linking it
to placement of fixed deposits. However, to ensure prompt payment of
locker rent, we may at the time of allotment, obtain a Fixed Deposit which
would cover 3 years' rent and the charges for breaking open the locker in
case of an eventuality.
8.10 Foreign exchange services
a. When you buy or sell foreign exchange, we will give you
information on the services, details of the exchange rate and other
charges which apply to foreign exchange transactions. If this is not
possible, we will tell you how these will be worked out.
b. If you want to transfer money abroad, we will inform you how to do
this and will give you :
i. a description of the services and how to use them.
ii. details of when the money you have sent abroad should
get there and the reasons for delays, if any.
iii. the exchange rate applied for conversion of the foreign
currency (if this is not possible at the time of the
transaction, we will let you know later what the rate
was).
iv. details of any commission or charges, which you will
have to pay and a caution that the person receiving the
money may also have to pay the correspondent bank's
charges.
c. We will tell you if the information provided by you for making a
payment abroad is adequate or not. In case of any discrepancies
or incomplete documentation, we will advise you immediately
and assist you to rectify / complete the same.
d. If money is transferred to your bank account from abroad, we will
tell you the original amount received and charges if any levied. If
the sender has agreed to pay all charges, we will not take any
charges when we credit the money into your account.
e. We will guide you about the regulatory requirements or conditions
relating to foreign exchange services offered by us as and when
requested by you.
f. In case of delay beyond the day when the amount is due for
credit, you will be compensated (a) for any loss on account of
interest for due period beyond the due date and (b) also for
24
adverse movement of forex rate as per the Compensation Policy
of the bank.
g. All certificates required to be issued under regulatory / statutory
instructions will be issued free of charge.
8.11 Remittances within India
If you want to remit money within India we will inform you how to effect it
and will :
a. give a description of our services and how to use them.
b. suggest to you the best way to send the money to suit your needs.
c. disclose the details of all charges including commission that you
will have to pay for the service as per the Tariff Schedule.
d. send you an SMS / e-mail informing you of the fate / status of the
remittance made by you through mobile banking / NEFT / RTGS.
e. make available on our website updated contact details of our
Customer Facilitation Centres to handle your queries / complaints
regarding NEFT / RTGS transactions.
f. In case of any delay we will compensate you for the delay and
any loss / additional expense incurred by you.
g. We will extend remittance facilities within prescribed limits to walkin
customers too.
8.12 Lending
a. We will have a Board approved policy on Loans and Advances.
b. We will base our lending decisions on a careful and prudent
assessment of your financial position and capacity to repay.
c. We will not discriminate on grounds of sex, caste and religion in the
matter of lending. However, this does not preclude us from
instituting or participating in schemes framed for specified sections
of the society.
8.12.1 Loans
8.12.1.1 General Information
We will :
a. give you the Most Important Terms and Conditions (MITC) governing the loan
/ credit facility you have sought to avail.
b. give you information explaining the key features of our loan and credit card
products including applicable fees and charges while communicating the
sanction of the loan / credit card.
c. advise you about the information / documentation we need from you to
enable you to apply. We will also advise you what documentation we need
from you with respect to your identity, address, employment, etc. and any
other document that may be stipulated by statutory authorities (e.g. PAN
25
details), in order to comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
d. verify the details mentioned by you in the loan / credit card application by
contacting you at your residence and / or on business telephone numbers
and / or physically visiting your residence and / or business addresses through
agencies appointed by us for this purpose, if deemed necessary by us.
e. if we offer you an overdraft, or an increase in your existing overdraft limit, tell
you if your overdraft is repayable on demand or otherwise. We will, if
required, also advise about the method of calculation of overdrawn amount
and also the computation of interest.
f. in case we offer / approve a credit facility over the telephone, we will credit
your account with the amount only after receiving your acceptance in
writing or through any other mode and where your consent is obtained
through authenticated electronic means / after necessary validation.
g. not offer any unsolicited pre-approved credit facility in any form, including
enhancement of credit card limit and top up of personal loan limits, etc.
8.12.1.2 Applications for loans and their processing
a. At the time of sourcing a loan product, we will provide as part of the loan
application form, information about the interest rates along with the
annualised rates of interest, whether floating or fixed, as also the fees /
charges payable for processing, the amount of such fees refundable if loan is
not sanctioned / disbursed, pre-payment options and charges, if any, penal
rate of interest for delayed repayments, if any, conversion charges for
switching your loan from fixed to floating rates or vice-versa, existence of any
interest reset clause and any other matter which affects the interest of the
borrower, so that a meaningful comparison with those of other banks can be
made and an informed decision can be taken by you.
b. We will provide you with a checklist of documents to be submitted
(compliant with legal and regulatory requirements) along with the loan
application form to enable you to submit the application complete in all
respects. If required, we will assist you in filling up your loan application form.
We shall invariably provide you with an acknowledgement of your loan
application, whether submitted online or manually, indicating therein the
time frame within which the application will be processed.
c.
d. We will convey our decision on your loan application for a limit up to 20
lakh within 30 working days from the date of receipt of the application
provided your application is complete in all respects and is submitted along
with all the documents as per 'check list' provided. We will convey our
decision on applications beyond 20 lakh within a reasonable time frame.
e. Normally all particulars required for processing the loan application will be
collected by us at the time of application. In case we need any additional
information we will contact you immediately.
f. We will communicate, in writing, the reason(s) for rejection of your loan
application.
g. We will provide you the sanction letter detailing particulars of amount
26
sanctioned and the terms and conditions.
h. We will provide you an amortisation schedule (schedule of repayment of
principal and interest for the duration of the loan).
i. We will also inform you whether you have an option to let equated monthly
instalments stay constant and changed tenure or viceversa when the interest
rate changes.
j. We will, at your request, supply authenticated copies of all the loan
documents executed by you at our cost along with a copy each of all
enclosures quoted in the loan document.
k. We will give written receipt for all documents to title taken as security /
collateral for any loan.
l. We will endeavour to send you a communication through letter / mail or SMS
about the status of your account before it becomes an NPA.
m. We will give you notice, sufficiently in advance, if we decide to recall /
accelerate payment or performance under the agreement or seek
additional securities.
n. We will provide you with an annual statement of account of your term /
demand loans.
o. We will provide you with the loan statement, more often, if required, at a cost
which will be indicated in the Tariff Schedule.
p. We will return to you all the securities / documents / title deeds to mortgaged
property within 15 days of the repayment of all dues agreed to or
contracted. If any right to set off is to be exercised for any other claim, we
will give due notice with full particulars about the other claims and retain the
securities / documents / title to mortgaged property till the relevant claim is
settled / paid.
q. We will compensate you for any delay in return of securities / documents /
title deeds to mortgaged property beyond 15 days of the repayment of all
dues agreed to or contracted.
r. In the event of our losing the securities / documents / title deeds you have
provided to us when you availed a loan, we will compensate you for the loss.
We will issue a certificate indicating the securities / documents / title deeds
lost and extend all assistance to you for obtaining duplicate documents etc.
s. We will process a request for transfer of borrowal account, either from you or
from a bank / financial institution, in the normal course and convey our
concurrence or otherwise within two weeks of receipt of request.
t. We will not levy foreclosure charges / pre-payment penalties on home loans
carrying floating interest rate.
27
8.13 Guarantee
a. If you want us to accept a guarantee or other security from a third
party for your liabilities, we may ask you for your permission to give
confidential information about your finances to the person giving the
guarantee or other security, or to their legal adviser.
b. We will also :
i. encourage them to take independent legal advice to make sure that
they understand their commitment and the possible consequences of
their decision (where appropriate, the documents we ask them to sign
will contain this recommendation as a clear and obvious notice).
ii. inform them that by giving the guarantee or other security they may
become liable instead of, or as well as, you.
iii. inform them what their liability will be.
iv. give a copy of the terms and conditions of the loan sanctioned / loan
agreement, free of cost, to the guarantor(s) of the credit facility
availed by you.
c. When you are considering to be a guarantor to a loan, we will tell you :
i. your liability as guarantor;
ii. the amount of liability you will be committing yourself to the bank;
iii. circumstances in which we will call on you to pay up your liability;
iv. whether we have recourse to your other monies in the bank if you fail
to pay up as a guarantor;
v. whether your liabilities as a guarantor are limited to a specific quantum
or they are unlimited;
vi. time and circumstances in which your liabilities as a guarantor will be
discharged as also the manner in which we will notify you about this;
vii of any material or adverse change in the financial position of the
borrower to whom you stand as a guarantor.
d. We will return to you all the securities / documents / title deeds to
mortgaged property within 15 days of the repayment of all dues
agreed to or contracted.
e. We will compensate you for any delay in return of securities /
documents / title deeds to mortgaged property beyond 15 days of the
repayment of all dues agreed to or contracted.
f. In the event of our losing the securities / documents, we will
compensate you for the loss. We will issue a certificate indicating the
securities / documents lost and extend all assistance to you for
obtaining duplicate documents, etc.
28
8.14 Central Registry
When you avail of a loan facility involving immoveable
property as primary or collateral security, we will advise you
the functioning of the Central Registry and the fact that their
records will be available for search by any lender or any
other person desirous of dealing with the property.
8.15 Settlement of dues
a. You should let us know, as soon as possible, if you are
not able to make your payments in time.
b. We will consider all cases of genuine financial
difficulty sympathetically and positively, in
consonance with regulatory guidelines and our
policy.
c. We will try to help you overcome your difficulties.
d. In case we offer you a One Time Settlement (OTS) for
repayment of dues, we will explain to you the details
of the offer.
e. We will spell out, in writing, the terms and conditions
of the OTS offered to you.
f. If the dues are settled under OTS, we will explain to
you the implications of such settlement on your credit
history maintained by the CICs.
8.16 Securitisation of loans / card dues
a. In case we securitise (sell) your loans / dues on your
card to another entity, we will advise you the name
and contact details of such entity along with the
amount of your loan / dues transferred to them. In the
normal course, loans / card dues, which are
nonstandard are considered for sale to Asset
Reconstruction Company (ARC) through assignments.
Where dues are settled through compromise,
assigning such assets to ARC does not arise.
b. You will then be liable to pay the amount due to the
entity to which the loan / dues have been transferred.
c. The entity to which the loan / dues have been
transferred will continue to report your credit
information to the CICs.
d. We will endeavour to assist you in case you have a
grievance against the entity to which your loan /
dues have been transferred by us.
29
8.17 Electronic Banking
8.17.1 PINs and Passwords
a. We will conform to internationally
accepted standards for methods of
generation, storage and terminal security
relating to PINs and Passwords to ensure
their confidentiality and security for your
protection.
b. We will deliver your PIN to you at our
branch after due identification or deliver it
at the address we have on record. You
may, also at your convenience, generate
PIN.
c. In order to safeguard your account, simple
PINs or Passwords such as those listed
below should be avoided.
i. birth dates, months or years;
ii. sequential numbers (e.g. 3456);
iii. number combinations that may be
easily guessed (e.g. 1111);
iv. parts of your telephone number;
v. parts of numbers in the order in which
they are printed on any of your cards;
vi. other easily accessible personal data
(e.g. driving licence, or other numbers
easily connected with you); and
vii names of family members, pets or
streets.
d. You must safeguard your PIN or Password -
Do not :
i. allow anyone else to use your card,
PIN, password or other security
information.
ii. write down or record your PIN,
password or other security
information.
iii. store your password(s) in your mobile /
browser.
iv. give your account details, password /
PIN or other security information to
anyone, including those who claim to
30
be authorised representatives of the
bank.
v. respond to any communication
asking for bank account details for
any purpose.
vi. fall prey to fictitious offers / lottery
winnings / remittance of cheap funds
in foreign currency from abroad by
certain foreign entities / individuals,
including Indian residents acting as
representatives of such entities /
individuals. These offers are generally
made through letters, e-mails, mobile
phones, SMSs, etc.
Always :
i. memorize your PIN, password and
other security information and destroy
the written communication, if any,
received by you.
ii. choose your new PIN carefully, if you
change your PIN.
iii. choose a "strong" password and
change it regularly.
iv. take reasonable steps to keep your
card safe in your personal custody
and your PIN, password and other
security information secret at all times.
v. take care to ensure that no-one can
see you enter your PIN when you use
your card at ATMs or at Points of Sale
(POS) counters.
vi. inform us of the disclosure or possible
disclosure of your PIN or Password as
soon as you are aware or suspect
your PIN or Password has been
disclosed. You should also change
your Password / PIN as soon as you
are aware or suspect that someone
else knows them.
vii consider using a different PIN or
Password for different cards or
equipment.
viii put in a power-on / access password
in your PC / Mobile, screensaver
password on your PC, so that no one
31
else can use your PC / Mobile without
your consent.
e. In case someone else knows your PIN or
other security information, we will, on your
notifying us, take immediate steps to try
and prevent these from being misused.
8.17.2 Internet Banking
a. We will take all necessary steps to put in
place security systems to enable safe
access to and transacting through internet
banking.
b. We will take appropriate measures to
ensure that our Internet Banking system
and technology are secure and are
regularly reviewed and updated for this
purpose.
c. We will undertake various initiatives to
educate you on online security by way of
periodic e-mails, through our websites and
at various customer touchpoints like ATMs,
etc.
d. We will never ask you in person or in writing
(including by e-mail) to confirm your
Internet Banking security information or to
disclose your Password.
e. When we first give you access to our
Internet Banking services, we will tell you
where to find the information you need to
safeguard your online information and to
protect yourself and your own computer
from fraud, scams or unauthorised
transactions. This information will be
updated from time to time.
f. We will inform you of what procedures you
must use to report unauthorized access to
your information, accounts or disputed
transactions using Internet Banking service
and make available to you contact
particulars so you can report the
unauthorised activity as soon as you are
aware of it.
g. When you have access to Internet
Banking services, we will also inform you of
the applicable terms and conditions
32
relating to such services. Detailed Internet
Banking terms and conditions will also be
available on our website.
h. All Internet Banking related services and
associated charges, if any, will be
displayed and available to you online.
Charges associated with Internet Banking
services will also be available in the Tariff
Schedule.
i. We will carry out additional authentication
process via second factor parameters for
financial transactions, as prescribed by the
regulator from time to time.
j. We will send you SMS / e-mail alerts for the
financial transactions undertaken by you
beyond the specified limit, at the contact
details registered with us.
k. We will send you an SMS / e-mail on all
payee / biller registration done on
Netbanking.
l. We will offer you the facility of fixing a cap
on the value, mode of transactions and
beneficiaries in electronic modes of
transactions. We will require an additional
authorization in the event of your
changing the options. We will send you an
alert when a request for change in the
options is received.
m. You may opt out of Internet Banking
Services at any point of time. However,
you must keep us informed of your
decision and ensure that you complete
the requisite formalities.
n. You will not be liable for losses caused by
transactions before your access to Internet
Banking facility is activated / made
operational.
o. In any dispute about receipt of Passwords
or security information that are not issued
to you in person, we will not rely merely on
proof of despatch to your correct address
as proof that they have been received by
you.
p. In the event of any unauthorized
transaction after you have received the
33
means to access Internet Banking, your
liability will be the lesser of :
i. the actual loss at the time of
notification to us; or
ii. the balance that would have been
available for withdrawal from your
account(s); or
iii. the limit you may have set for such
transactions;
iv. lower of (i) to (iii) or maximum of
10,000 (Rupees Ten thousand only).
q. If you advise us as promptly as is
reasonably possible that your Password or
any other security information is or may be
known to another person or there has
been an unauthorised access to your
Internet Banking information or accounts,
you will not be held responsible for any
loss, from the time you have notified us,
unless you have acted fraudulently or
negligently or have contributed to such
disclosure or unauthorised access.
r. If you incur a direct loss that is due to a
security breach of our Internet Banking
system as a result of our failure to take
reasonable care and is not caused or
contributed to by you, we will reimburse /
compensate you for that loss.
s. Online banking is safe and convenient as
long as you take a number of simple
precautions. Please make sure you follow
the advice given below :
i. Visit our secure Internet banking site
directly. Avoid accessing the site
through a link from another site or an
e-mail and verify the domain name
displayed to avoid spoof websites.
ii. Ignore any e-mail asking for your
password or PIN and inform us of the
same for us to investigate. Neither the
police nor we will ever contact you to
ask you to reveal your online banking
or payment card PINs, or your
password information.
iii. Log off from Netbanking when your
session is complete. Use the 'Log Out'
34
button to log out so that the session
closes. Do not just close the window
to log off.
iv. Do not use cyber cafes / shared PCs
to access our Internet banking site.
v. Update your PC with latest anti-virus
and spy ware software regularly.
vi. Install security programmes to protect
against hackers, virus attacks or any
malicious programmes.
vii. Install a suitable firewall to protect
your PC and its contents from
outsiders.
viii. Disable the 'File and Printing Sharing'
feature on your operating system.
ix. Log off your PC when not in use.
x. Do not store your ID / PIN in the
Internet Explorer Browser.
xi. Check your account and transaction
history regularly.
xii. Follow our advice - our websites are
usually a good place to get help and
guidance on how to stay safe online.
8.17.3 Mobile Banking
a. We will take appropriate measures to
ensure that our mobile applications are
secure and regularly reviewed and
updated for this purpose.
b. Apart from your obligations when using
Internet Banking, when using a mobile
application or any other form of social
media to access banking services you will
need to take additional care to protect
your device, by :
i. not leaving your device unattended
and logged into a mobile banking
service;
ii. locking your device or taking other
steps to stop unauthorised use of your
mobile banking service; and
iii. notifying us as soon as practicable if
your device is lost or stolen.
35
c. If you opt for mobile banking services we
will, prior to your registration for the
service, inform you of :
i. the security procedure adopted by us
for user authentication.
ii. the applicability or otherwise of stop
payment instructions and the terms
and conditions for the acceptance, if
any, for the same.
8.17.4 ATM / Debit and Credit Cards
a. We will offer you an ATM / Debit Card if it is
normally issued with the type of account
you have opted for. You may decline to
accept the card if you do not want it.
b. Where cards are delivered to you
personally, we must be satisfied about
your identity before allowing cards to be
delivered.
c. We will send a service guide / member
booklet giving detailed terms and
conditions, losses on your account that
you may be liable if your card is lost /
misused and other relevant information
with respect to usage of your card along
with your first card.
d. We will inform you which of your accounts
your card can access. We will also inform
you whether the card issued to you has
more than one function and if so, what
those functions are.
e. We will advise you of the current
transaction limits that apply at POS
counters, ATMs and forex transactions.
f. We will advise you of the fees and charges
that apply to your card.
g. We will provide 'Online Alerts' to you for all
card transactions, irrespective of the
amount. While sending you an alert every
time your card is used, we will indicate the
telephone number which you can
contact to deactivate your card, if the
transaction has not been initiated by you /
your card has been misused.
h. We will send you an SMS in the event of 3
consecutive incorrect attempts of log in
36
on the same day.
i. You must always ensure that you have
informed us of your current mobile number
/ e-mail Id so that you receive alerts
promptly. Failure to keep your contact
information with us updated may result in
your being liable for any loss suffered as a
result of misuse of your cards.
j. When we issue your card we will inform
you how best to safeguard your card. For
example, you must :
i. not leave your card in an unattended
wallet, purse or vehicle or anywhere
from where it could be removed
without being noticed;
ii. sign your card as soon as you receive
it;
iii. not give your card to anyone or let
anyone else use your card. Always
remember to take your card back
after using it;
iv. inform us if you change your address,
so a replacement card is sent to the
correct place; and
v. report the loss or theft of your card as
soon as you are aware of it.
8.17.4.1 Reporting loss / theft / disputed
transactions
a. We will inform you of the procedure
you must follow to report the loss, theft
or unauthorised use of your card or
PIN.
b. We will include in the terms and
conditions what your liability will be in
relation to the loss or theft of your
Card or disclosure of your PIN or
Password.
c. We will make available to you
telephone numbers / e-mail Ids that
you can use to report loss, theft or
unauthorised use of your card, PIN or
password as soon as you are aware
that any such event has occurred.
d. You should inform us as soon as you
37
discover that your card has been lost
or stolen or someone else knows your
PIN, password or other security
information apart from changing
them immediately.
e. In case your ATM / Debit / Credit card
has been lost or stolen, we will, on
your notifying us, take immediate
steps to try to prevent these from
being misused.
f. You may be liable for misuse until the
time that we have been notified.
g. We will block a lost or misused card
immediately on being informed of the
loss / misuse. You could tell us about
the loss / misuse by phone at our 24
hour toll free number and send us a
written confirmation to that effect
immediately. You may also send us an
e-mail using the e-mail id we have
given you for this purpose. We will
send you a confirmation for having
blocked usage of the card promptly.
h. Once you have advised us that your
card has been lost or stolen, or your
PIN or Password disclosed, you will not
be responsible for any unauthorised
use of your card after that time. This
protection will not apply if you have
acted fraudulently or negligently.
i. In the case of a disputed transaction,
we will give you more details if you
ask us to do so. In cases where we do
not accept your contention, it will be
our responsibility to provide evidence
of your having authorized the
transaction in question.
j. If you notify us of an incorrect, invalid
or unauthorised transaction, we will
investigate the matter. If the
transaction is found to be incorrect,
invalid or unauthorised we will reverse
the transaction as per the
chargeback process.
k. You will not be liable for losses before
you receive your Card or, if
applicable, your PIN and Password,
38
provided you have notified us of your
current address. In any dispute about
receipt of a card, PIN or Password
that is not issued to you in person, we
will not rely on proof of despatch to
your correct address as proof that the
Card, PIN or Password was received.
l. You will not be liable for loss caused
by :
i. fraudulent or negligent conduct
by our employees or agents or
parties involved in the provision of
electronic banking services;
ii. faults that occur in machines,
cards or systems used, unless the
faults are obvious or advised by
message or notice on display;
iii. unauthorised transactions before
you have received your cards, PIN
or Password;
iv. any other unauthorised
transaction where it is clear that
you could not have contributed
to the loss.
m. You will be liable to pay not more
than 10,000 / (Rupees Ten thousand
only) for any loss that occurs before
you notify us. However, this limit will
not apply if :
i. you have acted fraudulently or
negligently; or
ii. you have contributed to the
unauthorised use of your Card.
n. In the event that the clause above
applies, your maximum liability will be
the lesser of :
i. the actual loss at time of
notification; or
ii. the maximum amount that you
would have been entitled to
withdraw from your account
between the time your Card was
lost / stolen and the time you
notified us.
39
o. You will have a limited time to dispute
a transaction. We will inform you of
this time in the terms and conditions.
Failure to report the incorrect, invalid
or unauthorised transaction within
that time will mean that we cannot
reverse the transaction and you will
have to pay for it. There are limited
circumstances under which we can
reverse a credit card transaction,
particularly where the rules of a credit
card company apply. For example,
we cannot reverse a credit card
transaction where there is a dispute
with the Merchant as to the quality of
the goods and services, or you have
changed your mind about the quality
of the goods and services or an error
has been made by you or the
Merchant on a Debit Card
transaction.
p. We will display the telephone
numbers of the help desk / contact
persons of the ATM owning bank at
ATM locations to enable you to lodge
a complaint / seek redressal.
q. We will also display the name and
telephone number of the officials with
whom the complaint can be lodged.
r. We will reimburse amounts wrongly
debited in failed ATM transactions
within the prescribed time limit. For
any delay beyond the prescribed
time limit, we will pay compensation
as prescribed, provided the claim is
lodged with us i.e. the ATM card
issuing bank within 30 days of the
transaction.
s. In case of disputed ATM transactions,
we will retain the relevant camera
footage till the dispute is settled.
Access to such footage will be
available only if the dispute is raised
within the prescribed preservation
period of such records.
8.17.5 Credit Card
a. When you apply for a credit card, we will explain the relevant terms and
conditions such as fees, interest and other charges, billing and payment,
40
method of computation of overdues, financial implications of paying only
'the minimum amount due', renewal and termination procedures, and
any other information that you may require to operate the card.
b. We will give you a copy of the Most Important Terms and Conditions
(MITC) at the time of application.
c. We will advise you of our targeted turnaround time while you are availing
/ applying for a credit card.
d. We may also issue a deactivated (not ready to use) credit card if we
consider your profile appropriate for issuing credit card and such
deactivated card will become active only after you convey your
acceptance of the card and take steps for its activation as required and
subject to such other conditions as may be specified.
e. In case we activate the card without your consent or bill you for the card
for which you have not given your consent, we will not only reverse the
charges forthwith but will also pay a penalty amounting to twice the
value of the charges reversed.
f. We will extend a loan / credit facility or enhance the credit limit on your
card only with your consent in writing. Consent received through
electronic means where you specifically validate the transaction and
having read the MITC and where digital records of such consent can be
retrieved as a proof of consent will also be treated as consent.
g. We may issue an add-on card(s) to the person(s) nominated by you. We
will, at your request, set a credit limit (within the overall limit) for the add-
on card(s) issued to you. You will be liable for all transactions made by
such additional card holders.
h. If the limit on your credit card is proposed to be reduced, we will inform
you immediately including the reason therefor, by SMS / e-mail followed
by confirmation in writing.
i. We will ensure that we comply with your request for cancellation and
confirm cancellation / closure of the credit card to you within 7 working
days of the request being received in writing or through an e-mail Id
registered with us, provided that the outstanding amount, if any, is settled
/ paid.
8.17.5.1 Credit card statements
a. To help you manage your credit card account and
check details of purchases / cash withdrawals, we will
send you a monthly statement, free of cost, with details of
the transactions made with / using your credit card. The
credit card statement will be dispatched on a
predetermined date every month, by post / courier to
your mailing address or, if you so desire, by e-mail to the
address registered with us. The statement will also be
made available for viewing on internet banking.
41
b. In the event of non-receipt of this statement, we expect
you to get in touch with us so that we can arrange to
resend the details to enable you to make the payment
and highlight exception, if any, in a timely manner.
c. We will let you know / notify changes in schedule of fees
and charges and terms and conditions. Normally,
changes (other than interest rates and those which are a
result of regulatory requirements) will be made with
prospective effect after giving notice of at least one
month. The changes will be notified along with the
monthly statement of account or copy thereof.
d. Before reporting to Credit Information Company about
default status of a credit card holder, we will adhere to a
procedure approved by the Board, including issuing of
sufficient notice to the card holder.
8.18 Third Party Products
We will undertake to sell third party products like mutual funds, insurance, etc. only if we
are authorised to do so. We will have a Board approved policy regarding marketing and
distribution of third party financial products.
a. We will inform you if we, as agents of any investment / asset management
company or insurance company, offer any type of investment product including
mutual funds or insurance products.
b. We will ensure that all investment and insurance products we are selling are in
accordance with extant rules and regulations.
c. When you avail a banking service or product from us, we will not compel you to
purchase / subscribe to any third party product as a quid pro quo.
d. In the case of securities provided by you for loans availed from us, we will not
insist on your obtaining insurance cover from any particular provider / same
organization. Obtention of insurance products if any offered by us will be purely
on voluntary basis. You will be free to obtain insurance cover from a service
provider of your choice.
e. We will, at regular intervals, educate you by way of advertisement / notice
board / information on website / distribution of pamphlets etc. the benefit of the
products being sold at our branches, unless you have opted not to receive such
information.
f. We will ensure that all investment and insurance products sold at the branches
will be explained to you by personnel who are duly qualified to sell the products.
g. We will apply appropriate customer due diligence measures before selling
investment / insurance products to you.
h. We will sell a product to you if we believe it is suitable and appropriate for you.
i. We will obtain the requisite application and documentation for a product
offered only after you have consented to subscribe / avail of the product, in
writing or through authenticated electronic means / after necessary validation.
42
j. We will provide detailed terms and conditions of the product which is being
offered to you.
k. We will ensure that the charges for related service for selling of various products
will be displayed and made available to you.
l. We will ensure that the statement / policy documents will be delivered to you
within 30 days from the completion of all the formalities (including medical
examination) as per the scheme.
m. We will arrange to provide maximum possible 'After Sales Service' like reminder of
SIP, latest NAV, date of maturity, due date of payment of premium, etc.
n. We will arrange for you to have at periodical intervals information on the
performance of the scheme / products you have availed.
o. We will disclose details of all commissions / other fees received, if any, from
mutual fund / insurance / other financial companies for marketing their
products.
8.19 Credit Counselling Facility
We will endeavour to provide credit counselling facility. Wherever such facility is available,
we will display, at our branches in a particular centre, the address, timings, etc. of the
counselling centres set up by any bank at that centre to enable you to avail of the
service.
8.20 Getting Records
We will, on request, make available to you, at a cost, records pertaining to your
transactions, provided this is within the prescribed preservation period of such record.
9. BRANCH CLOSURE / SHIFTING
a. If we plan to close our branch or if we move our branch or we are not able to
continue to provide banking services to you, we will give you -
i. Notice of two months if there is no branch of any bank functioning at that
centre;
ii. Notice of one month in all other cases.
b. In case we shift the branch, we will inform you of the complete address of the new
location of our branch.
c. We will inform you of any change in the timings of the working of the branch.]
10. FINANCIAL INCLUSION
a. We will make available 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' (BSBD Account) without
the requirement of any minimum balance subject to compliance with the instructions on
Know Your Customer (KYC) / Anti-Money Laundering (AML) for opening of bank
accounts issued by RBI from time to time. We will also offer / provide minimum common
facilities including the facility of ATM card or ATM-cum- Debit Card without any charges,
which will be made known to you. The relevant details will be made known to you in a
transparent manner at the time of opening of the account.
43
b. We will also extend the facility of opening such accounts on the basis of simplified KYC
norms. However, such accounts will be additionally treated as "Small Accounts" and
subjected to restrictions which will be made known to you in an easy to understand
manner and in the local language.
c. We will also prominently display in all our branches in bilingual / trilingual the
requirements for opening "Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account" and also the
documentation required under simplified KYC norms for opening "Small Account".
d. We will also take steps, including training, to create awareness about the above among
our staff, particularly the frontline staff.
e. We will make available, free of cost, basic banking facilities like maintaining of accounts
with a specified number of withdrawals in a month, General Credit Card and transfer of
benefits from State and Central Governments through electronic platforms.
f. We will provide value added services, if so desired, by you either free of cost or with low
charges, to be notified upfront in the language known and understood by you.
g. If there are any changes in the services, transactions or the charges, these will be made
known at least one month prior to these becoming effective.
h. The changes, if any, will be communicated through means appropriate to you, such as
by display in the Notice Board of the branch, or through the Business Correspondent or
through letters, etc.
i. Where we do not have a branch, we will endeavour to have a Business Correspondent
(BC) / Business Facilitator (BF) in unbanked areas as per guidelines and road map
agreed to, if any, with Reserve Bank of India to enable the opening of accounts, deposit
and withdrawal of money, subject to amount and number of transactions, balance
enquiry, etc., as also to facilitate transfer of money from one place to another.
j. We will also endeavour to provide Mobile Banking facilities.
k. We will also endeavour to provide other modes of remittance including mobile phones,
electronic platforms like ECS, NEFT, etc.
l. We will be responsible for all acts of omission and commission of the BC / BF and any
complaint lodged against them will be investigated.
m. We will offer, in case of need, a credit facility at affordable cost, subject to terms and
conditions which will be made known to you at the time of applying for the credit
facility.
n. We will explain to you the various credit plans available, including minimum information
which the bank may need for processing your loan application, the most important
terms and conditions applicable to such loans, the security which may be charged to
the bank, the manner and periodicity of application of interest, repayment procedure,
etc.
o. We will not insist on collateral security for credit limits up to Rupees One lakh (excludes
loans to MSE customers where higher collateral free limit of 10 lakh is applicable).
p. In case you face any financial difficulty in relation to the credit facility availed by you,
we will consider such cases sympathetically and positively.
q. You may keep us informed of any financial difficulty you may face, as above, to help us
assist you overcome your difficulties.
44
r. We will endeavour to help you to overcome your difficulties by, where desirable,
drawing up a revival package, if such package is considered desirable in the interest of
both of us.
s. We will educate and guide the account holders the manner of operating bank
accounts either under normal branch banking or through alternate channel including
using devices under Information and Communication Technology (ICT) enabled
platforms.
t. We will undertake financial literacy activities to educate customers.
u. We will organize camps, stalls and town hall events to promote the cause of financial
inclusion in towns and villages with participation by the target group.
v. We will introduce a mechanism in the bank to educate our staff across levels about the
financial inclusion efforts in the country in general and in the bank, in particular.
w. We will put in place a system of regular / ongoing visits by the bank's officials to the
unbanked areas where financial inclusion initiatives have been undertaken to ensure
end-implementation of the bank's efforts.
x. We will endeavour to attend promptly to your complaints, if any and resolve them at
the earliest.
y. In case you have any grievance about the bank or its BC / BF, we will make known the
manner of lodging complaints and the mechanism in the bank for resolution of
complaints, as also the Banking Ombudsman Scheme, in case your complaint is not
resolved or resolved to your satisfaction by the bank.
z. We will give wide publicity to the financial inclusion programme and educate the
customers about various products and services.
11. SENIOR CITIZENS AND DIFFERENTLY ABLED PERSONS
a. We will make our best efforts to make it easy and convenient for our special customers
like senior citizens, differently abled and illiterate persons to bank with us. This will include
making convenient policies, products and services for such applicants and customers.
b. We will endeavour to develop systems and procedures to improve access to banking
services by you.
c. We will endeavour to make physical access to our branches and ATMs convenient for
you.
d. We will sensitise our staff interacting with you to assist you in carrying out your banking
transactions.
e. In addition to all the other commitments made in this Code -
i. We will accord due priority to you. We will endeavour to provide you personalized
services for banking transactions and redressal of grievances.
ii. We will endeavour to provide seating arrangements in the banking hall.
iii. We will endeavour to provide you our services through a Single Window
mechanism.
45
iv. We will permit withdrawal of your funds, up to limits set by you, by persons
authorized by you on production of the authorization letter and passbook.
v. We will endeavour to provide 'Doorstep' banking (pick up of cash / instruments for
credit to the account or delivery of cash / demand drafts against issue of cheque
/ requisition in writing) in special circumstances like ill health, inability to come to
the branch, etc.
vi. We will issue a pension slip to you (pensioners) containing details of the pension
credited to your account.
vii. We will endeavour to arrange to disburse the pension at the doorstep, in special
circumstances.
viii. We will accept the Life Certificate that is required to be submitted by you
(pensioners) at any branch of our bank.
ix. We will guide relatives / parents of disabled persons on how to appoint a legal
guardian, under the National Trust Act, 1999, for disabled persons with autism,
cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple disabilities who can then open
and operate accounts for such persons.
x. We will ensure that all the banking facilities such as cheque book facility, ATM
facility, Net banking facility, locker facility, retail loans, credit cards etc., are
invariably offered to the visually challenged without any discrimination.
xi. We will render all possible assistance to the visually challenged for availing various
banking facilities.
xii. We will endeavour to arrange regular meetings so that you may voice your
concerns and benefit from collective experience.
12. PROTECTING YOUR ACCOUNTS
12.1 Secure and reliable banking and payment systems
a. We will make best efforts to ensure that you enjoy secure and reliable banking
and payment systems and which you can trust.
b. We will install CCTV, wherever feasible, for close surveillance as part of security
arrangements.
12.2 Keeping us up to date
a. Please make sure you register your current address, phone number, mobile
phone number and / or e-mail Id with us to enable us to send you necessary
alerts.
b. Please make sure you let us know, promptly, when you change your name,
address, phone numbers and e-mail Id so that we are able to contact you
when required.
12.3 Checking your account
a. We recommend that you check your statement or passbook regularly. If there
is an entry, which seems to be wrong, you should tell us as soon as possible so
46
that we can investigate the same. Regular checks on direct debits and
standing orders will help you ensure the money is going where you want it to.
b. If we need to investigate a transaction on your account, you should co-
operate with us and with the police / other investigative agencies if we need
to involve them.
12.4 Taking care
Due care by you of your cheques, passbook and other security information is
essential to help prevent fraud and protect your accounts. Please make sure that
you follow the advice given below :
a. Do not
i. keep your cheque book and cards together.
ii. keep the blank cheque leaves signed.
iii. give your account details, password or other security information to
anyone.
b. We will advise you what you can do to protect your card / cheque book from
misuse.
c. In the event your cheque book, passbook or ATM / Debit card has been lost
or stolen, or that someone else knows your PIN or other security information,
we will, on your notifying us, take immediate steps to try to prevent these from
being misused. You should also change your PIN / Password if someone else
knows them.
d. It is essential that you tell us as soon as you can if you suspect or discover that
your cheque book, passbook, card has been lost or stolen or someone else
knows your PIN, password or other security information.
e. You could tell us about the loss of the above by phone at our 24 hour toll free
number given to you and send us a written confirmation to that effect
immediately. Alternatively, you may advise us by e-mail to the address we
have given you for this purpose.
f. You may be liable for misuses until the time that we have been notified.
12.5 Cancelling payments
a. To stop payment of a cheque or cancel standing instruction given, or cancel
a direct debit instruction, you must tell us in writing.
b. We will accept any instruction on withdrawal of mandate by you without
necessitating you to obtain the prior concurrence / approval for withdrawal
from the beneficiary / user institution.
c. It may not be possible to cancel payments if you do not give notice of your
decision to cancel.
d. Cancellation of credit card payments will be subject to other terms and
conditions as may be stipulated.
47
"
12.6 Liability for losses
If you act fraudulently, you will be responsible for all losses on your account. If you
act without reasonable care, which results in losses, you may be responsible for
them.
48
ANNEX - GLOSSARY
These definitions explain the meaning of words and terms used in the Code. They
are not precise legal or technical definitions.
ATM
An Automated Teller Machine [ATM] is a machine in which a customer can use his
card along with PIN to get cash, information and other services.
Banking Ombudsman
An independent dispute resolution authority set up by the Reserve Bank to deal with
disputes that individuals and small business have with their banks.
Card
A general term for any plastic card, which a customer may use to pay for goods
and services or to withdraw cash. In this Code, it includes debit, credit, smart and
ATM cards.
Credit Card
A Credit Card is a plastic card with a credit facility, which allows you to pay for
goods and services or to withdraw cash.
Cheque Collection Policy
Cheque Collection Policy refers to the policy followed by a bank in respect of the
various local and outstation cheques and instruments deposited with the bank for
credit to an account. The policy inter alia deals with
· Cheque purchase requests
· Timeframe for credit of cheques
· Payment of interest in case of delay in collection of cheques
· Instant credit of local and outstation cheques
· Cheques / instruments lost in transit and charges for such collection.
Customer
A person who has an account [including a joint account with another person or an
account held as an executor or trustee or as a Karta of an HUF, but not including
the accounts of sole traders/ proprietorships, partnerships, companies, clubs and
societies] or who avails of other products/ services from a bank.
49
Current Account
A form of demand deposit wherefrom withdrawals are allowed any number of times
depending upon the balance in the account or up to a particular agreed amount.
Deceased Account
A Deceased account is a deposit account in which case either the single account
holder has deceased or in case of joint accounts one or more of joint account
holders has/have deceased.
Demat Account
A Demat account refers to dematerialised account and is an account in which the
stocks of investors are held in electronic form.
Deposit Accounts
· “Savings deposits” means a form of demand deposit which is subject to
restrictions as to the number of withdrawals as also the amounts of
withdrawals permitted by the bank during any specified period.
· “Term deposit” means a deposit received by the bank for a fixed period
withdrawable only after the expiry of the fixed period and includes deposits
such as Recurring / Double Benefit Deposits / Short Deposits / Fixed Deposits
/Monthly Income Certificate /Quarterly Income Certificate etc.
· “Notice Deposit” means term deposit for specific period but withdrawable
on giving at least one complete banking day’s notice.
Equity
Equity means a part of capital of a corporate entity which is represented by the
shares of the company whether in physical or in dematerialised form.
Electronic Clearing Service
It is a mode of electronic funds transfer from one bank account to another bank
account using the services of a Clearing House.
Fixed rate of interest
Fixed Rate of Interest on a loan means that interest rate is fixed for the entire period
of the loan or it may be revised after the first few years depending upon the terms
and conditions of loan.
Floating rate of interest
Floating Rate of Interest on a loan means that interest rate is not fixed but is linked to
Reference Rate and would with changes in the latter.
50
Guarantee
A promise given by a person
Government Bond
Government bond means a security created and issued by the Government for the
purpose of raising a public loan.
Inoperative / Dormant Account
An inoperative / dormant account is a savings bank or current account in which
there are no transactions for over a period of two years.
Mail
A letter in a physical or electronic form.
NEFT
National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT) system is a nation wide funds transfer
system to facilitate transfer of funds from one bank branch to any other bank
branch in the country.
Nomination facility
The nomination facility enables the bank to: make payment to the nominee of a
deceased depositor, of the amount standing to the credit of the depositor; return to
the nominee, the articles left by a deceased person in the bank’s safe custody;
release to the nominee of the hirer, the contents of a safety locker, in the event of
the death of the hirer.
Out-of-date [stale] cheque
A cheque, presented for collection, three months after the date of issue of the
cheque.
PAN
The Permanent Account Number is an all India unique number having ten
alphanumeric characters allotted by the Income Tax Department, Government of
India. It is issued in the form of a laminated card. It is permanent and will not
change with change of address of the assessee or change of Assessing Officer.
Password
A word or numbers or a combination on an access Code, which the customer has
chosen, to allow him to use a phone or Internet banking service. It is also used for
51
identification.
PIN [Personal Identification Number]
A confidential number, use of which along with a card allows customers to pay for
articles/ services, withdraw cash and use other electronic services offered by the
bank.
RTGS
The acronym ‘RTGS’ stands for Real Time Gross Settlement. RTGS system offers the
fastest means of transfer of funds through banking channel. Settlement of
transactions under RTGS takes place on one-to-one basis, which is termed as ‘Gross’
settlement and in ‘real time’ i.e. without any waiting period.
Reference rate
It is the benchmark rate of interest of a bank to which interest on loans sanctioned
under floating rate of interest is linked. The Reference Rate of interest is
determined/modified by individual banks in accordance with their policies.
Senior Citizen
Senior Citizen is a person of over sixty years of age.
Smart Card
A smart card is a plastic card about the size of a credit card, with an embedded
microchip which can process data. It provides a secure way of identification,
authentication and storage of data. It can be used for telephone calling, electronic
cash payments, and other applications.
Tariff Schedule
A schedule detailing charges levied by a bank on the products and services
offered by it to its customers.
Unpaid Cheque
This is a cheque, which is returned ‘unpaid’ [bounced] by the bank.
* * * * * * * * * * *
